In the bar, in the wholly empty middle of the room, some farmers were sitting
on the walls of barrels, though they seemed different than those in the K.'s
inn. They wore, more neatly and more uniformly, gray-ish yellow, rough clothes;
their jackets were inflated, their panst closely fitted. At first glance, they
seemed to have very similarly flat, bony, and round-cheeked faces. Everyone was
quiet and hardly moving, only acknowledging the entrance with their glances,
though only slowly and with indifference. Despite that, they exerted, because
there were so many and it was so quiet, a certain effect on K. He took Olga's
arm again, using it to explain his presence here to the people. In one corner,
a man stood up, an acquaintance of Olga's, and wanted to go up to her,, but K.
turned them around in another direction with his interlocked arm.  No one but
she could have notice, and she tolerated it with a sideways smile.

The beer was delivered by a young girl named Frieda. She was an inconspicuous,
small, blonde girl with sad eyes and thin cheeks, but she had a surprising look
of some special superiority. When this gaze fell upon K., it seemed to him that
this gaze identified some relevant things in K., the existence of which he
himself knew nothing about; the existence of which shown with that look. K.
didn't listen to Frieda speak over from his side, even as she was already
speaking with Olga. Olga and Frieda did not appear to be friends; they
exchanged only a few cold words. K. wanted to help, asking abruptly: "Do you
know Mr. Klamm?" Olga laughed. "Why aer you laughing?" asked K., annoyed. "No,
no, I'm not laughing," she said, but laughing more. "So Olga's a real childish
girl," said K. and bent far over the table to firmly see Frieda's expression
again. But she stopped him and said lightly, "Would you like to see Mr. Klamm?"
K. said yes. She pointed to a door just left of them. "Here's a small peephole,
you can look through it." --- "And the people here?" asked K. She rose her
lower lip up and lead K. with an incredibly soft hand to the door. Through the
small peephole, obviously drilled for this purposoe, he almost saw the whole
next-door room.

At a desk in the middle of the room, on a comfortable, round chair sat, luridly
lit by a light bulb hung down before him, Mr. Klamm. He was a man of average
height, fat, wide, and clumsy in appearance. His face was smooth, but his
cheeks were weighed down already by the weight of age. His black mustache was
grown out long.

A pair of obliquely worn eyeglasses hid his eyes in reflections. If Mr. Klamm
had fully sat by the table, K. would have only seen him in profile, but here he
was strongly turned around and K. could see his whole face. K. had laid his
left elbow on the table and his right hand, in which he held Virginia tobacco,
rested on his knee. A beer glass was on the table; though the edge of the table
was high there, so K. couldn't quite see whether there were any papers or
writings on the desk, though it seemed to him as though it were empty. To be
safe, he asked Frieda to look through the lock and to give him some information
about it. She, however, had been in the room a little while ago, and could
quickly confirm that there were no papers there. K. asked Frieda whether he
needed to go soon, but she said he could look as long as he liked. K. was now
alone with Frieda, Olga had, as he quickly saw, walked away to find her
acquaintances, sitting high on a barrell and kciking her feet. "Fridea," said
K., whispering, "You know Mr. Klamm quite well!" --- "Oh yes," she said. "Very
well." She leaned near K. and playfully adjusted what K. just now noticed was a
light, low-cut, cream colored blouse, fitted somewhat strangely for her body.
Then she said: "Do you not remember Olga's laugh?" --- "Yes, she's very
impolite," said K. "Now," she said, in a concillatory tone, "there was reason
to laugh. She asked if I knew Klamm, and I'm" --- here she instinctively raised
herself up a little, and again her triumphant expression was directed at K.,
seemingly unconnected to what she said, "I'm his lover." --- "Klamm's lover,"
said K. She nodded. "Then to me," K. said, smiling, in order not to let too
much seriousness show between them, "you are a respectable person." --- "Not
just for you," said Fridea, friendlily, but without taking up the same smile.
K. had something for her pride and applied it; he asked: "Have you been in the
castle?" But it didn't catch as she answered: "No, but isn't it enough that I'm
here in this bar?" Her ambition was obviously great, and it seemed now to K.
that she wanted his compliments. "Of course," K. said, "Here in this bar, you
understand the host's work." --- "So it is," she said, "and I began as a stable
maid at the 'Wood Inn.'" --- "With these delicate hands?" said K., half asking,
and himself not knowing whether he was flattering her or if she really defeated
him. Indeed, her hands were small and smooth, though they could also be called
strong. "No one's respected me then for that," she said, "and even now ---" K.
looked inquiringly. She shook her head and didn't want to go on. "Of course,"
said K., "you have your secrets, and you won't reveal them to just anyone whom
you've known for half an hour and who had no opportunity to explain, actually,
how he is." But now that was, as shown, an unfitting observation; it was as
though he had awakened Frieda from a slumber. She took a small stick out of the
leather bag she had hung on her belt, blocking the peephole with it, and said
to K., clearly forcing herself not to let him notice the change in her
attitude: "Regarding you, as I know really everything, you are the surveyor,"
going on: "But I must get on with my work." She went to her place behind the
counter as one of the men there rose so that she could refill his empty glass.
K. wanted to speak with her yet one more time, therefore taking an empty glass
from a rack and going up to her. "Just one more, Ms. Frieda," he said, "It's
extraordinary, and a select kind of strength is required, to work up from a
stable maid to a barmaid, but is that for such a person the final goal?
Non-sensical question. In your eyes --- don't laugh at me, Ms. Frieda --- you
don't speak much of the past in comparison with your current efforts. But the
obstacles of the world are large, and they get larger with larger goals, and
it's no shame to secure the help of a small man with no influence, but even so
he is a capable man. Maybe we could speak quietly with each other again;
without the stares of so many eyes." --- "I don't know what you want," she
said, and this time, her tone seemed, against her will, to resonate not with
the victories of her life but with its undending disappointments. "Are you
maybe trying to take me from Klamm? Good God!" She brought her hands together.
"You've seen through me," K. said, as though tired of that much distrust, "That
was just my aim. You should leave Klamm and become my lover. But now I can go.
Olga!" he called, "We're going home." Olga obediently left her barrel, but
didn't come quickly from the people that surrounded her. Lightly turning to
K., Frieda said: "When can I speak with you?" --- "Can I stay the night here?"
asked K. "Yes," said Frieda. "Can I stay here for now?" --- "Go on with Olga,
and I can get rid of the people here. You can come back in a little bit." ---
"Good," said K., waiting impatiently for Olga. But the farmers didn't let her,
they had invented a dance where Olga was in the center, and always with a
collective cry one of them would step towards Olga, grabbing her with a hand
around her hips and swirling her around. The dance was becoming faster and
faster, the cries, hungry and racuous, become almost a single scream. Olga, who
earlier wanted to break through the circle with a laugh, staggered now from one
to another with her hair coming down. "The people they send me here," said
Frieda, biting her thin lips in annoyance. "Who are they?" asked K. "Klamm's
servants," said Olga, "He brings these people with him further and further,
always upsetting me. I hardly know what I said to you, Mr. Surveyor; was it
something evil? Forgive it, blame the presence of these people, they're the
most despicable and disgustingones I know, and I need to get them their beers.
How often have I already asked Klamm to leave them at home? I need to deal with
other mens' servants, too, he certainly could consider me, but all asking is in
vain; an hour before his arrival they all stormed in like cattle to the
stables. But now they really should be in the stables where they belong. If you
weren't here, I'd rip open the door and Klamm himself would have to drive
them out." --- "And he doesn't hear them?" asked K. "No," said Frieda. "He's
sleeping." --- "How?!" cried K., "He's sleeping?! When I saw his room, he was
certainly still awake, sitting at the table." --- "He's still there," said
Frieda, "He was sleeping even when you saw him. Would I have let you see him
otherwise? That's how he sleeps; he sleeps a lot; people can hardly understand.
By the way, if he didn't sleep so much, how could he stand these people? But
now I've got to throw them out myself." She took a whip out from the corner and
jumped towards the dancers --- high, though not entirely safe, like a small
lamb's jump. At first, they turned against her like it was the arrival of a new
dancer, and in fact it looked for a moment as though Frieda might drop the
whip, but then she raised it again. "In Klamm's name," she screamed, "in the
stables! Everyone in the stables!" Now they saw that it was serious; a fear
that K. couldn't understand began in them, crowding into the background. Under
the whip, the first went out of the door; cold night's air blew in, everyone
disappeared with Frieda, obviously taking them to the yard.

But now in the suddenly arisen silence, K. heard footsteps on the floor. For
his safety, he jumped behind the counter, under which was the only possible
place to hide. It wasn't in technicality forbidden for him to stay in the bar,
but since he wanted to spend the night here, he needed to avoid being seen. And
so if the door were opened, he'd be under the table. It was of course not
entirely unsafe to be discovered there; it wasn't unbelievable, his excuse,
that he had hiddene from the wild farmers. It was teh host. "Frieda!" he
called, and went up and down the room a couple times.

Fortunately, Frieda came soon and didn't mention K., complaining only of the
farmers before going to look for K behind the desk. K. was able to touch her
foot there, feeling then a bit safer. Frieda still didn't mention K., though
the landlord finally had to do it. "And where is the surveyor?" he asked. He
was probably considered quite polite considering his frequent contact with
high-ranking men, but he spoke to Frieda in an especially respectful manner,
noticeable above all because the discussion did not stop to be that of an
employer and employee. "I've quite forgotten about the surveyor," Frieda said,
putting her small foot on K.'s chest. "He probably left a while ago." --- "But
I haven't seen him," said the host, "and I was on the floor almost the entire
time." --- "But he isn't here," said Frieda. "Maybe he hid," said the host,
"After that impression I got from him, I'd trust of him quite a lot." --- "He
probably wouldn't have the courage," said Frieda, pushing her foot hardenr onto
K. Something happy and free was in her nature, which K. certainly hadn't
noticed earlier, and it entirely, improbably took over when she suddenly
laughed with the words, "Maybe he's hiding under here," bending away towards K.
She briefly kissed him and came back up again and said, sadly, "No, he's not
here." But the host also caused some astonishment when he now said, "It's
really very unpleasant to me that I just can't tell whether he's gone. It's not
just about Mr. Klamm, but also about the regulations. They apply just as much
to you, Ms. Frieda, as they apply to me. Here, you're responsible for the rest
of the house that I haven't looked through. Good night! Rest well!" He
certainly couldn't have left the room already, but Frieda turned off the lights
and was soon with K. under the bar. "My darling! My sweet darling!" she
whispered, but didn't touch K., lying on her back and stretching her arms out
as though time were infinite in her fortunate love; then she sighed, singing
some small song. Then she startled up, K. still ever thankful, and began to tug
on him like a child: "Come, it's suffocating down here!" They embraced each
other, her small body burning in K.s hands, and they rolled almost
unconsciously, K. trying repeatedly but unsuccessfully trying to get out of it,
then, a few steps later, dully hit Klamm's door and laid in a small puddle of
beers and other rubbish covering the floor. Hours passed there --- hours of
breaths together, of hearts beating together --- hours through which K.
constantly had the feeling that he had gotten so lost or was so entrenched in
the foreign beyond the experiences of any other person or foreigner before him,
in which there was no element of his home's air in this foreign air, air in
which one would have to suffocate in strangeness and in whose sensuous
temptations one could only go further, getting further lost. So, at least at
first, it was not a scare, but an impression of dawn when a voice directed to
Frieda coming out of Klamm's room woke her up.
