It was late into the afternoon when K. arrived. The village was deep in snow,
and there was nothing to see from Schloßberg. Fog and darkness surrounded
him. K. stood on the wooden bridge that lead from the country road
to the village for a long time and looked out at the seeming emptiness above.
Then he went to find somewhere to spend the night; an inn where one was still
awake. But the host had no rooms to rent, although he would allow the late guest,
K., extremely surprised and confused, to sleep on a haysack. A few farmers were
sat with their beers, but wanting to talk to nobody, K. took the haystack from
the attic and laid it out near the ovens. It was warm, the farmers were quiet,
he examined yet little with his tired eyes, and so it was that he went to sleep.

He was awoken a short time later. A young man, stately dressed, with an actor's
face, small eyes, and strong eyebrows stood with the host next to K. The
farmers were still there, a few having turned their armchairs around in order
to better see and hear. The young man apologized with the hope of waking
K., introduced himself as the son of the castle, and then said: "This
village is property of the castle; everyone who lives and stays the night here
lives or stays the night, we may say, in the castle. And that is not allowed
without the Count's permission. But you don't have that permission, or, at
least, you have not shown it."

K. had half woken up, pattted his hair, glanced at the people from around him
and said, "In which village have I ended up? Is there, then, a castle here?"

"Indeed," said the young man, slowly, here and there shaking his head at K.:
"the castle of Count Westwest."

"And one needs to have permission to stay overnight?" asked K., as though he
were convincing himself that he hadn't just dreamed the earlier message,

"One needs to have the Count's permission," was the answer, and therein was a
large mockery for K., when the young man, with outstretched arms, asked the
host and guests: "But do you not need that permission?"

"Then I will need to get the Count's permission." said K., yawning and shoving
his blanket away as though he were just waking.

"And from whom?" asked the young man.

"From the Count." said K., "No one else will be left."

The young man cried, "Now, in the middle of the night, get permission from the
count?" taking a step backward.

"Is that not possible?" asked K., calmly. "Why, then, did you wake me up?"

Now the young man was beside himself. "Delinquent manners!" he screamed. "I
demand respect for the Count's institution! I woke you to tell you that you
must leave his land as soon as possible!"

"Quit the jokes," said K. remarkably softly, and laid back down, pulling the
blanket over him. "You're going, young man, a little too far, and I'll come
back to your problems in the morning. The host and the gentlemen are witnesses,
insofar as I need witnesses anyway, but let it be said that I am the surveyor
that the Count has allowed to come. My assisstants will come tomorrow with the
equipment in the car. I didn't want to let myself miss the snow, but
unfortunately I strayed from the path and therefore arrived so late. I knew,
prior to your instruction, that it's now too late to raise my hand at the
castle. So I satisfied myself with this inn here, that — to say the least —
your rudeness disturbed. With this I finish my explanation. Good night, sir."
And K. turned to the oven.

He heard "Surveyor?" asked hesitantly behind his back, and then everything was
quiet. But the young man quickly put himself together and said to the host in a
tone weak enough in consideration of K.'s sleep, and loud enough to be
understood: "I'll ask over the phone." How was there a telephone in this
village inn? It was excellently furnished. To the singularly surprised K., he
had everything he expected. It was revealed that the telephone was,
appropriately, almost over his head; something he had overlooked in his
exhaustion. If the young man had to make a call, he could not, even by his best
will, accomodate K.'s sleep, and because the call should concern K., he decided
to tolerate it. It made, then, no sense to play with the sleeping man, and he
therefore returned to lying on his back. He saw the farmers shyly move together
and talk to each other. The arrival of a surveyor was not insignificant. The
door of the kitchen was opened, and there stood the powerful body of the host's
wife, whom the host approached on tiptoe to report to. And so began the call.
The housekeeper was sleeping, but one of his aids among the staff, a Mr. Fritz,
was there. The young man, who introduced himself as Schwarzer, explained how he
found K., a man in his thirties, rightly battered, sleeping peacefully on a
haystack, with a little rucksack as a pillow, and a cane in his surroundings.
Now he was of course suspicious, and the host had apparently neglected his
duty, such as it's his, Schwarzer's, duty known, to attend to the things on the
ground. The awakening, the interrogation, K.'s very ungrateful response to
the dutiful threat of expulsion, how it finally happened, perhaps with truth,
that he claimed to be a surveyor of the Count. Of course it's just a formality
to check the claim, and Schwarzer therefore asked Mr. Fritz to in inquire to
the central office if a surveyor of this kind was really expected, and to call
back with the answer to the same.

Then it was quiet. Fritz inquired on his side, and here they waited for the
answer. K. remained as he was up to now; he turned about not once; seemed
absolutely uncurious; and looked ahead. Schwarzer's introduction, in its
mixture of malice and caution, gave him an idea of, so to speak, the diplomatic
upbringing, which, in the castle, even small people like Schwarzer could
dispose of. They were not lacking of dilligence there; the central office had
its night shift. Often there were, too, very quick answers, and Fritz was soon
called. This report seemed at least quite short, and suddenly Schwarzer threw
the receiver down in anger. "I told you so!" he shrieked. "No trace of a
surveyor; a common, lying vagrant, and probably worse." For a moment K. thought
that all of them --- Schwarzer, the farmers, the host and his wife, all of them
--- would topple him. At least he could evade the first rush, hiding under the
ceiling. Then the telephone rang, as it seemed to K., especially strongly. He
slowly stuck his head out. Although it was unlikely that it woudl concern K.,
everyone faltered, and Schwarzer came back to the appliance. There he heard a
long explanation and said, softly: "A mistake, then? That's quite unpleasant to
me. The office leader himself called? Odd, odd. How should I explain this to
the surveyor?"

K. listened on. The castle had named him the surveyor. That was on the one hand
unfavorible to him because it showed that everyone in the castle knew
everything necessary about him, the ballance of power had shifted, and he had a
smile on his face. But on the other hand, it was favorable, since it proved his
opinion that he was underestimated and that he would have more freedom, as he
had previously allowed himself to hope. And if one believes, through this
certain acceptance of superiority, that his surveyorship could constantly come
to frighten him, so it was that one was mistaken; It easily overlooked him, but
that was everything.

K. waved shyly to the approaching Schwarzer, who was moving into the host's
room wherein he was urged and refused to accept only a nightcap from the
host and a sink with soap and a hand towel from his wife. He certainly needn't
have demanded that the hall was emptied, since everyone already left, averting
their faces in order not to be recognized in the morning. The light was
extinguished, and he finally found some rest. He slept deeply, hardly disturbed
by the scurrying rats, fleeing to the morning.

After breakfast, which, like the totality of K.'s accomodations, per the
castle's host, K. would have to pay for, K. wanted to quickly go to the
village. But there the host, with whom he had, until now, according to his
memories of yesterday's behavior, only spoken to for necessities, continuously
turning him around with mute pleas, took pity on him and let K. sit by him for
a little while.

"I don't yet know the Count," said K., "He should pay good work with good
money, no? If one, like me, travels so far from their wife and kids, then he'd
want to bring something home."

"From this point of view, the man needn't worry about poor compensation; nobody
hears of bad payment." --- "Now," said K., "I'm not a shy person, and I can
tell the Count my opinion, but of course it would be better to become peaceful
with the man."

The host sat K. opposite the windowsill's edge, and calmly dared him not to
sit, seeing K. the whole time with large, brown, fearful eyes. First he pushed
K. close, and now it seemed as though he would much prefer to run away. Did he
fear for how the Count would interrogate him? Did he fear the unreliability of
the man whom he considered K. to be? K. must have distracted him. K. looked at
the clock and said, "Now, my help will come soon, would you be able to
accomodate them here?"

"Certainly, sir," he said, "They won't stay with you in the castle?"

Wouldn't he love to so easily do away with K. and the guests, whom he had
certainly left to the castle?

"I'm not sure," K. said K., "First, I need to learn what work they have for me.
Should I, for example, work down here, it'd be more reasonable to stay down
here. I also fear that life up in the castle wouldn't be for me. I always want to
be free."

"You don't know the castle," the host said lightly.

"Yes," said K., "one shouldn't be so quick to judge. I certainly don't know
anything more about the castle than they know about picking the right land
surveyor. Maybe there's no other virtue there." Then he stood to free himself
from the unrest of the biting host's lip. It wasn't simple to gain the trust of
this man.

While leaving, K. saw a dark portrait in a dark frame. He'd noticed it from his
earlier position, but he hadn't distinguished it, and believed that the actual
image was taken away from the frame, and only a black backing remained to be
seen. But there was a picture, now showing the portrait of a man in his
fifties. He bowed his head so low in the frame that one could hardly see
anything of his eyes, and the tall, heavy forhead was seemingly crucial for
that lowering, as was his strong, downwarldy curved nose. A full beard grew,
due to his head's positioning's pointed pressure on his chin, even farther
below him. His left hand was spread into his full hair, though his head
couldn't rise any more. "Who is that?" asked K., "The Count?" K. stood before
the image, not looking back at the host. "No," said the host, "the Castellan."
--- "You certainly have a beautiful Castellan in your castle," said K., "it's a
shame that his son turned out so poorly."a "No.," said the host, pulling K.
down a little, and whispeering in his ear: "Schwarzer exaggerated yesterday.
His father is just an undercastellan and, even then, one of the last." At that
moment, K. seemed like a kid to the host. "That bastard!" said K., laughing,
but the host didn't laugh along, saying instead: "But his father is powerful."
"Bah!" said K., "You think everyone has power. Me, too?" "You," he said shyly
but seriously, "I do not think you have power." "So you just don't understand
how well to observe," said K., "I am not powerful by name; really I am not. And
so I have no less respect for the powerful than you, only I'm not as
honest as you, and don't want always to admit it." And K. tapped the host's
cheek in order to console him and to make himself more agreeable. So now he
smiled a little. He was really a young man with his soft, beardless face. How
had he come to have his old wife, who could be seen next door behind a
peephole, far from the elbows of her love, managing the kitchen? But K. didn't
want to inquire any further into the host, chasing away that final smile. So he
gave him only a wink, opened the door for him, and stepped out into the bright
winter morning.

So it was that he saw the castle above, distinctly outlined in the clear air,
further revealed by the thin layer of snow resting everywhere. There seemed to
be much less snow on the mountain than here in the village, where K. had
arduously brought himself forward no less than yesterday on the country road.
Here, the snow reached to the windows of the cabin and weighed down the roof,
but over on the mountain everything stuck out freely and simply upwards,
seeming little like here.

Everything about the castle --- how it showed itself here from the distance ---
was as K. expected. It was neither an old construction nor some new monument,
but a creation expanded with time that consisted of few two-story areas,
but plenty of lower, close-together constructions; if one didn't know that this
was meant to be a castle, one could take it for some little city. K. saw just
one tower, though, if it belonged to a living space or a church, he couldn't
tell. Swarms of crows surrounded it.

K. went further, eyes pointed at the castle, and he was generally unbothered.
But coming closer to the castle, he found himself disappointed in it. It was
really just a miserable town, built out of village houses, distinguished only
by the fact that they were, maybe, all built out of stone; but the paint had
peeled off long ago and the stone looked to be crumbling away. K. was
fleetingly reminded of his hometown; it was hardly inferior to this ostensible
castle. Were K. to come only to see the castle, the trek would have been a
shame, and he could have quite reasonably just visited his old home that he
hadn't been to in so long. And he compared the church in his homeland with the
tower he saw above. That tower, certainly, without hesitation, narrowed
upwards, completed with red bricks, an earthly building --- what else could we
build? --- but with a higher end than the low count of houses and with a more
clear expression than the dull workday. The tower here above --- it was the
only thing visible --- the living spaces' tower, as it shows itself now, or
maybe the head castle's tower, was a uniform rotunda, in part graciously hidden
with ivy, with small windows that now shone in the sun --- there was something
insane about that --- and a balcony-like conclusion whose battlements seemed
irregular, uncertain, brittle, jagged in the blue sky, like a fearful or
negligent child's hand. It was like if a dismal housmate who ought to have put
himself away in the farthest room of the house, had broken through the roof and
stood up so that the world would see. K. stood silently again, as though in
standing silently he had more strength of judgment. But he would be disturbed.
Behind the village church, near which he was still standing --- is was actually
only a chapel, widened so as to be able to accommodate the municipality --- was
a school.

A low and long building, made with a provisionary character and uniting the
old; it was behind an enclosed garden, now a field of snow. The schoolchildren
came out with their teacher. They surrounded the teacher in a thick pile, all
eyes looking at him, incessantly speaking from all sides. K. could absolutely
not understand their fast speech. The teacher, a young, small,
narrow-shouldered man, but not to any ridiculous extent, fully upright, had
already seen K. from a distance: Of course, aside from his group, K. was the
only person near. K., the foreigner, greeted the small, commanding man first.
"Good morning, sir," he said.

With a hit, the children fell silent; the teacher probably liking this sudden
silence as preparation for his words. "Looking at the castle?" he gently asked,
as K. expected, but in a tone as though he had no approval for what K. was
doing. "Yes," said K. "Since yesterday morning, I'm new in this place." ---
"You don't like the castle?" quickly asked the teacher. "What?" asked K. back,
a little astonished, and repeated the question in a milder form: "Do I like the
castle? Why do you suppose that I don't?" 

"Foreigners don't like it," said the teacher. In order not to say anything
unwelcoming, K. changed the conversation and asked, "You probably, then, know
the Count?" --- "No," said the teacher, going to turn away. But K. didn't yet
give in, asking again: "What? You don't know the Count?" "Why should I know
him?" said the teacher, softly, and joined in loudly in French: "Get out of
here, innocent children." K. got the right to ask: "Could I visit you once,
Sir? I'm staying a longer time here and feel already now a little lost; I don't
belong with the farmers, and I probably don't belong in the castle, either."
--- "There's no big difference between the farmers and the castle," said the
teacher. "Maybe," said K., "that doesn't change my position. Could I visit you
this once?" --- "I live in Swan Valley, by the butcher's." And that was perhaps
more information than an invitation, so K. said, "Good, I will come." The
teacher nodded and moved on with the children. They soon disappeared in an
abruptly-sloping alley.

But K. was scattered and angered by the conversation. For the first time since
he'd come, he felt real exhaustion. The long path to here didn't originally
seem to have attacked him at all, how he wandered through the days, peaceful,
step by step! But now the huge consequences of the effort showed themselves, at
a bad time, of course. They pulled him irressistibly away to search for new
acquaintances, but every new acquaintance reinforced the exhaustion. If he in
his current condition were compelled to expand his walk to at least to the
entrance of the castle, more than enough would be done.

So he went yet forwards, although it was a long way. The street, namely the
main street of the village, didn't lead him to Schloßberg; it only got close,
but then, as if intentionally, it turned around, and even if it weren't removed
from the castle, it still managed not to bring him any closer. K. always
expected that the street would finally have to give in to the castle, and only
from this expectation did he go farther; often as a result of his exhaustion he
hesitated to leave the street; he was also amazed at the expanse of the village
that reached no end, again and again the small houses and icy window panes and
snow and desert --- finally he tore himself away from this held street,
entering a small alley through even thicker snow, pulling out his sinking feet
becoming hard work, breaking out in sweat, until suddenly he stood silently and
couldn't go any farther.

Now, he wasn't lost. To his right and left stood farmers' huts. He made a
snowball and threw it against a window. The door opened quickly --- the first
open door over the whole path --- and an old farmer in a brown fur jacket, his
head tilted sideways, friendly and strong, was there. "May I come to you a
little?" said K., "I'm very tired." He didn't heard at all what the old man
said, greatfully accepting a board pushed towards him that quickly saved him
from the snow, and with a few steps he was in the living room.

A large living room in the twilight. This wasn't at all seen at first when
coming from outside. K. staggered against a sink, and a woman's hand helped him
up. Children's screams came from a corner. Smoke rolled out of another corner,
dimming a half-light. K. was standing as though in clouds. "He's drunk,"
someone said. "Who are you?" cried an impetuous voice, probably turned to the
old man and said, "why have you let him in here? Can you just let everyone
sneaking around the alleys in?" --- "I am the Count's surveyor." said K. as he
searched to answer the still invisible questioners. "Oh, it's the surveyor,"
said a female voice, then followed by a perfect silence. "You know me?" asked
K. "Certainly," came the same voice's quick reply. That he was known did not
seem to imply that he was endorsed.

Some of the smoke finally evaporated, and K. could slowly find his way. It
seemed to be a general wash day. Some laundry was washed near the door. But the
smoke was coming from another corner in which, in some woodwork larger
than K. had ever seen --- around the size of two beds --- two men were bathing
in steaming water. But still more surprisingly, without it being known exactly
what the surprise consisted in, was the right corner. In that large opening, the
only in the back wall of the living room, pale reflections of snow, probably
coming out from the yard, was the dress of a woman, who was so deep in an
armchair so almost to be lying down, played off a shine of silk. She wore an
infant on her breast. A few children played around her, farmer's children,
as could be seen, but they didn't seem to belong to her; however, sickness
and exhaustion made even farmers refined.

"Sit!" said one of the men, bearded, with a moustache under which he always
kept his mouth open. Oddly to see, he reached his hand out over the edge of the
tub, splashing K.'s whole face with warm water. On the tub sat also the old man
who had let K. in. K. was thankful to finally be allowed to sit. Now no one
cared about him. The blond woman by the sink sang lightly and with youthful
abundance as she worked; the men in the bath stomped and turned; the children
approaching them but through splashes of water (of which K., also, was not
spared), again and again driven back; the woman in the armchair laid back as
though lifeless, not once looking at the child on her breast, instead always
looking up.

K. had probably looked at her for a long time; this this unchanging, beautiful,
sad image, but then he must have been asleep before being awoken by a loud cry
when he let his head lie on the shoulder of the old man next to him. The men
had finished their bath, which, now occupied by the children, the blonde woman
supervised, walked, and stood in front of K. It seemed that the full-bearded,
screaming man was the lesser of the two. The other, not larger than the
full-bearded one and himself with a much lesser beard, was a quiet,
slow-thinking man of a broad figure, even a broad face. He kept his head sunk
down. "Sir," he said, "You can't stay here. Forgive the unkindness." --- "I
didn't want to stay, either," said K., "I'd like only to relax a little. That's
happened, and I can go now." --- "You're wondering about our unfriendliness to
guests," said the man, "but to us, accomodating our guests isn't a custom. We
don't need guests." A little refreshed from his sleep, a little more attentive
than before, K. was happy to hear words with such openness. He moved more
freely, supported his walking stick here and there, and approached the woman in
the armchair. He was the largest person in the room.

"Of course," said K., "Why would you need guests? But here and there you need
someone, for example, myself, a surveyor." --- "I'm not so sure of that," said
the man slowly, "You were called for, so you are presumably needed. That may be
an exception. For us, however, us small people, we keep to the rules. You can't
blame us for that." --- "No, no," said K. "I have to thank you, you and
everyone here." And, unexpectedly for everyone, K. took a single stiff leap
around to stand in front of the woman. She looked at K. through tired, blue
eyes; a silk, transparent headscarf reached the middle of her forhead, the
infant asleep at her breast. "How are you?" asked K., dismissively. Then, she
answered, with contempt for either K. or her own answer, "A girl from the
castle."

All this only lasted a moment, but already there was one of the men at the left
and at the right of K., and, as though there were no other way to communicate,
they silently and forcefully pushed him to the door. The old man found himself
happy about something here as he watched and clapped his hands. Even the woman
at the sink laughed, standing with her loud children.

K., however, soon stood in the alley, with the two men dictating from beyond
the threshold. Snow was falling again, though it seemed a little brighter. The
full-bearded man called impatiently: "Where do you want to go? Here leads to
the castle; here leads to the village." K. didn't answer him, but said to the
other, who, despite his superiority, seemed to be more sociable: "Who are
you? Who do I have to thank for the stay?" --- "I'm the master tanner
Lasemann," came the answer, "You have nobody to thank." --- "Good," said K.,
"Maybe we may meet again." --- "I don't think so," said the man. In this
instant, the full-bearded man cried with a raised hand, "Good day, Artur, good
day, Jeremias!" K. turned around. So there were still people in the village
streets! In the direction from the castle came two young men of middling
height, both very thin, in tight clothes, and even with two very similar faces.
Their faces were a dark brown, complementing their quite black goatees. They
were walking astonishingly quickly in these road conditions, moving their thin
legs on beat. "What do you have?" called the full-bearded man. One could only
yell to communicate; they were walking so fast and refusing to stop.
"Business!" they called back, laughing. "Where" --- "In the inn." --- "I'll go
there too!" screamed K. above everyone else. He had a large demand to accompany
the two; their acquaintance seemed to him not necessarily productive, but good
nonetheless, seeing how clearly encouraging they were. They heard K.'s words
but only nodded. Soon, they were already gone.

K. still stood in the snow, having no desire to lift his feet out of the snow
just to sink further into the depths. The master tanner and his companion,
satisfied that K. ultimately gotten out, moved slowly, always looking back at
K. through the now only slightly-opened door in the house, and K. was then
alone in the all-encompassing snow. "An opportunity for a little despair," came
to mind, "if I were standing here randomly, and not with some intent."

The hut on the left opened its tiny window; when closed, it looked like a deep
blue, maybe in reflection of the snow, and was so small that, when it had just
now oppened, not even a full face could be seen, butu just a pair of eyes; old,
brown eyes. "He's standing there," K. heard a shaky, woman's voice say. "It's
the surveyor," rejoined a man's voice. Then the man stepped to the window and
asked not unfriendily, but instead as if there was some order to everything
outside on the street, "Who are you waiting for?" --- "For a sled that I can
take with me." said K., "You won't get any sleds here," said the man,
"There's no traffic here." --- "But this is the road that leads to the castle,"
objected K. "Nevertheless, nevertheless," said the man with a certain
relentlessness. "There is no traffic here." Then they were both silent. But the
man was clearly mulling something over since then the window, smoke streaming
out, was still longer open. "A poor path," said K., just to help the
conversation along.

But the reply was only: "Well, of course."

But then after a while he said: "If you want, I can take you with my sled." ---
"Do that, please," said K., enjoyed, "How much would you want for that?" ---
"Nothing," said the man. K. was quite curious about this. "You are but the
surveyor," explained the man, "and you are for the castle. Where do you want to
go?" --- "To the castle," said K., quickly. "Then I won't take you," said the
man, suddenly. "I am for the castle," said K., repeating the man's own words.
"So it may be," said the man, unsympathetically. "So take me to the inn," said
K. "Guaid the man, "I'll come along with the sled right away." On the whole, no
great impression of friendliness had been made, but rather that of a kind of
selfish, anxious, almost pedantic endeavor to get K. out from in front of the
house.

The door opened, and out came a small sled for light loads, quite flat, without
anywhere to sit, pulled by a small, weak horse in front of the man: bent over,
weak, limping, with a lean, red, sniffling face that seemed especially small
through the tightly wrapped wool scarf on his head. The man was visibly sick,
and emerged only to carry K. away. K. mentioned as such, but the man waved it
off. K. learned only that he was the carrier Gerstäcker, and he had taken this
uncomfortable sled because it was already ready; pulling out another would have
taken too much time. "Sit down," he said, pointing his whip at the sled. "I'll
sit next to you," said K., "I will go," said Gerstäcker. "Why, then?" asked K.
"I will go," repeated Gerstäcker, entering a coughing fit that shook him so
violently as to lift his legs from the snow, having to hold the edge of the
sled with his hands. K. said nothing further and sat down on the sled. The
cough slowly quited, and they left.

K. had hoped to reach the castle there above today, though it was already
unusually dark, but he moved farther away. As though he should be saying but a
temporary farewell, a bell there above rang out. It was a cheerful,
exhilirating bell, that, at least in this moment made the heart tremble, so, as
if threatening him --- the sound was also painful --- threatening him with
getting his uncertain desire. But soon this large bell fell silent, replaced by
a pithy, weak, monotonous bell; maybe above, but maybe in the village. This
ringing clearly fit the long ride better, as did it the pitiful yet relentless
sled driver.

"You," K. called suddenyl --- they were already near the church, the path to the
inn not much further, K. allowing himself to dare --- "I'm wondering if you're
driving me around from your own responsibility. You're allowed to do so?"
Gerstäcker cared not, and continued walking along with that small horse. "Hey!"
cried K., gathering some snow from the sled and throwing it to Gerstäcker's
ears. Now he stopped and turned around; now K. saw him so closely --- the sled
had gone a little farther --- this hunched over, somehow mistreated figure,
that red, tired, small face with somehow differing cheeks, one flat and the
other collapsed; the open, listening mouth, in which only a few isolated teeth
remained; he had to repeat what he said earlier out of malice now in
compassion, if Gerstäcker could be punished for transporting K. "What do you
want?" asked Gerstäcker, not understanding, expecting no further explanation,
called the horse on; and so they went onward.
