He would have liked to speak trustfully with Frieda, but the assistants, with
whom, by the way, Frieda was also joking and laughing with here and there,
prevented him from such conversation with their bare and obtrusive presence.
They were, all considered, not hard to please, having placed themselves in a
corner of the floor on top of two old skirts. It was as though they had talked
frequently with Frieda; their ambitions were to not disturb the Mr. Surveyor
and to take up as little room as possible, and, in this respect, they made, of
course always under lisps and giggles, various attempts to interlock their arms
and legs, crouching together. In the twighlight, one would only see a big ball.
But despite this, one would know from experience in daylight that they were
unfortunately attentive observers, always staring at K, observing even through
such childish games and nonsense as shaping their hands into telescopes, and
even when they just squinted and chiefly seemed to occupy themselves with their
beards, of which they thought very highly and which they, countless times,
compared the length and fullness of, letting Frieda judge.

K. often looked over from his bed at the activities of the three in complete
indifference.

When he felt strong enough to leave his bed, everyone hurried towards him with
their service. He wasn't yet strong enough to defend against that service and
he noticed that he thereby fell into a certain dependence on them, possibly
with poor consequences, but he had to let it happen. And it was also hardly
disagreeable to sit at the table and drink the good coffee that Frieda got for
him, or to warm up by the stove that Fridea lit, or to let the assistants in
their zeal and clumsiness run up and down the stairs to bring him laundry,
soap, and a mirror and finally, because K. had pronounced a quiet wish, to get
a small glass of rum. In the middle of this order and of their service,, K.
said, more out of a comfortable whim than in the hopes of success: "Now go
away, you two. I don't need you anymore and would like to speak to Ms. Frieda
alone." And when he didn't immediately see any resistance on their face, he
said, further, to compensate: "We three will then go to the mayor, who's
expecting me in the inn." Improbably, they obeyed, though they said, prior to
leaving, "We could also wait here." And K. answered: "I know, but I don't want
you to."

It was annoying, though in a certain sense welcome to K. when Frieda, who sat
immediately on K.'s lap after the assistants had left, said: "What do you have
against the assistants, Darling? We don't need to keep secrets from them.
They're loyal." --- "Loyal," said K., "They're constantly ambushing me, it's
senseless, it's awful!" --- "I belive I understand --- "I believe I
understand," she said, holding on to his neck, and, though she wanted to say
more, she found that she couldn't. And because the armchair was already next to
the bed, she hesitated over it before they fell into it. She lay there, though
not so devotedly as through their first night. She searched for something
angrily and he searched for something angrily, cutting grimaces, drilling into
the chest of the other, they looked and their embraces and their posed bodies
making them forget nothing, reminding them instead of the duty to search; they
were like dogs desperately scratching at the ground, so it was that they
scratched at each other's bodies; and helpless, disappointed, without any last
luck, they lead their tongues over the other's faces. Exhaustion lead them to
be quiet and thankful for each other. Then the maids came up. "See how they lie
here," said one, in kindness throwing a cloth over them.

When K. later freed himself of the cloth and looked around --- unsurpsingly ---
the assistants wre in their corner, and one admonished the other with a finger
pointed at K. and saluted. But aside from them, there was also the host's wife
sitting by the bed. She knitted a sock, a small work, not fitting with her
large figure, almost darkening the whole room. "I've already waited so long,"
she said, lifting her wide face, having gone through many of the marks of old
age but in its largeness was still smooth; maybe a once beautiful face. He sat
upright. Frieda, too, stood up, but left K. and laid out on the host's wife's
armchair. "Could it not be, please," said K., scattered, "that what you want to
tell me could wait until I return from seeing the mayor? It's an important
meeting." --- "This is more important, believe me, Mr. Surveyor" she said,
"You'll probably only talk about your job there, but here, we'll talk about a
person, about Frieda, my dear maid." --- "Ah," said K., "then of course; only I
don't know why this business need go beyond the two of us." --- "For love. For
concern," she said and pulled Frieda's head, her, standing now, only up to the
host's wife's shoulder. "Frieda has such trust for you," said K., "and so, so
do I. And earlier, she called my assistants loyal, and so we're all friends.
And so to you, ma'am, I can say that I think it would be best if Fried and I
got married --- in fact, very soon. Unfortunately, unfortunately, I won't be
able to replace Frieda's position with Klamm." Frieda lifted her face, it being
full of tears, and she had no expression of victory. "Why me? Why was I just
chosen?" ---- "What?" asked K. and the innkeeper's wife, simultaneously. "She's
confused, that poor girl," said the host's wife, "confused by the joining of
such fortune and misfortune." And almost as confirmation of these words, Frieda
fell onto K., kissing him wildly as though no one were in the room, and fell,
crying, still embracing him, directly in front of his knee. While K. stroked
her hair with both hands, he asked the host's wife: "You seem to agree with
me?" --- "You are honorable," she said, even as there were tears in her voice,
seeming somewhat decayed, breathing hard; despite this she still found the
strength to say: "There'll now only be some certain assurances to consider.
You'll need to give these to Fridea, since, even though I have such attention
for you now, you're still a foreigner, unable to call on anyone, we can't say
anything of your domestic connections. So we need assurances, you'll
understand, lovely Sir Surveyor, you have yourself emphasized how much Frieda
might lose by you." --- "Of course, assurances, naturally," said K., "which
I'll be able to best give before the notary, but any other agency of the count
may even involve itself, too. By the way, I've got something to finish just
before the marriage. I'll need to speak with Klamm." --- "That's impossible,"
said Frieda, lifting herself up a little and pressing herself against K., "What
a thought!" --- "It must be," said K., "If it's impossible for me to get it,
then you can." --- "I can't, K., I can't," she said, "Klamm can never speak to
you. How could you believe that Klamm could speak with you?!" --- "And he would
speak with you?" asked K., "Also no," said Fridea, "not with you, not with me,
it's just impossible." She turned to the innkeeper's wife with outstretched
arms: "See, Mrs. Innkeeper, just what he demands." --- "You are peculiar, Mr.
Surveyor," said the innkeeper's wife and it was really alarming how upright she
sat, her legs apart and her strong knees visible through her thin skirt. "You
ask the impossible." --- "How is it impossible?" asked K. "I'll explain that to
you," said the innkeeper's wife in a tone as though this explanation not
something of a last kindness, but instead just the first punishment that she
had for him. "I'll happily explain. I don't actually belong to the castle. I'm
just a wife, just the innkeeper's wife, here in an inn of the lowest degree ---
not the lowest degree, but not far from it --- and so it can't be that you put
much meaning by my explanation, but I have seen things in my life and have been
in the same room with a lot of people, and I've carried the whole weight of the
inn on my own. My husband, to be sure, is a nice young boy, but he's no
innkeeper, and he would never take on the responsibilities required. You, for
example, owe it only to his negligence --- I was tired enough to collapse that
evening --- that you're here at all." --- "What?" asked K., waking from a
certain absentmindedness, more by curiosity than by anger. "You owe it to his
negligence!" cried the innkeeper's wife again, holding her finger out against
K. Fride looked to assauge her. "What do you want?" asked the innkeeper's wife,
with a quick turn. "The Surveyor asked me a question, and I need to answer it.
How should he understand what's obvious to us, that Klamm won't speak to
anyone, and, I said "won't", no, it's because nobody *can* speak to him! Listen
here, Sir Surveyor! Mr. Klamm is a man from the castle, that means in itself a
high position for him, a quite high rank. And then you, whose marriage request
we're entertaining so humbly! You're not from the castel, you're not from the
village, you're nothing! But unfortunately you are a stranger here, someone who
is extraneous, in everyone's way, someone who always takes people into trouble,
the maids had to move out for you, someone who isn't known, someone who has
seduced poor little beloved Frieda and someone to whom we must, unfortunately,
give her over. I don't find you at fault for all this. You are what you are;
I've seen too much in my life, even now, to refuse to take this sight, too. But
now tell me what you're actually asking for. You shouldn't speak with a man
like Klamm! I've heard with pain that Frieda let you see him through the
keyhole, you already had her when she did that. So tell me, then, how did you
bare that glimpse? Don't answer, I know that you bore it very well. You really
aren't able to properly see Klamm, that isn't my arrogance; I myself am unable,
too. Klamm should speak to you, you say, but he doesn't talk to anyone from the
village, and he's certainly never spoken to anyone from outside the village.
And so it was Frieda's great distinction, a distinction that will be my pride
to my last, that he at least called Frieda by her name and and that she could
speak to him at her pleasure and that she got permission for the peephole, but
he has not yet spoken to her. And that he sometimes called Frieda's name
doesn't necessarily mean that he wanted to talk to her, he just sometimes said
the name "Frieda," --- who knows what he wanted? --- and Frieda naturally came
quite hastily, as was her business, and that she was left to see him without
trouble was Klamm's kindness, but that he he had called to her in particular?
You couldn't say that. Of course, what once was there, that's gone forever.
Maybe Klamm will call the name "Frieda" again, it's possible, but it's
certainly not possible to be left with him as a girl that has given herself for
you. And now, now there's something I can't wrap my poor head around, that a
girl, regarded by so many as Klamm's beloved --- I think of that as an very
gross exaggeration --- that she would let you disturb her."

"Of course, it's unusual," said K., taking Frieda, who, even if her head was
lowered, quickly sat on his lap. "But it proves, I think, that not everything's
how you think. So you're certainly right when you say that I'm nothing compared
to Klamm, and that when I also demand to speak Klamm and am not deterred by your
explanation, that doesn't mean that I'm capable of bearing to see Klamm without
a door standing between us, or if I wouldn't just run out of the room at the
sight of him. But this is still not reason enough for me to cease pursuing the
matter. It's simply my success to stand by him since it's absolutely
unnecessary for him to speak to me, and it's enough for me to see that my words
make an impression on him. Even if they do nothing or he simply doesn't hear
me, I've still won, free from the power in such a discussion. But you, Mrs.,
with your great knowledge of life and men, and Frieda, who was just yesterday
Klamm's beloved --- I see no reason to leave your word --- could you simply
give me the opportunity to speak with Klamm? If it's impossible otherwise, maybe
at the Castle Inn. He might still be there."
