When they were almost at the inn --- K. recognized it by a bend in the road ---
it was already almost completely dark. Was he really away for that long? Only
one, maybe two hours by his calculation. He had left in the morning, he was
never hungry, and until recently there had a been a regular daytime bell, but
now there was darkness. "Short days, short days," he said to himself, leaving
the sled and approaching the inn.

Above the small front stairs, the host welcomed him and shone a raised lantern
towards him. Fleetingly having remembered his driver, K. remained where he was
as someone coughed in the darkness; that was him. He would probably see
him soon again. First, when he was over by the host, humbly greeting him, he
saw, on either side of the door, a man. He took the lantern out of the host's
hand and illuminated the two: It was the men that he had met earlier; the ones
who were called Artur and Jeremias. Now, they saluted. In memory of his
time in the military, an these happy times, he smiled. "Who are you?" he asked,
and looked from one to the other. "Your help," they answered. "It's the help,"
confirmed the host, softly. "What?" asked K., "You're my old help, who I had
come after me, who I was waiting for?" They affirmed this. "That's good," said
K., after a while. "It's good that you've come." --- "By the way," said K.,
after an even longer while, "You're quite late; you've been very negligent."
--- "It was a long way," said one of them. "A long way," repeated K, "but I met
you both when you were coming from the castle." --- "Yes," they said, without
further explanation. "Where did you put the equipment?" asked K. "We don't have
it," they said. "The equipment, that I entrusted to you," said K. "We don't
have anything," they repeated. "Oh, be like that!" said K., "Do you know
anything of surveying?" --- "No," they said. "If you're my old help, you've got
to know about that," said K. They were silent. "So come along," said K., and
took them into the house.

So the three of them just sat silently at a tiny table in the inn with their
beers. K. were in the middle, on either side were his help. Aside from them,
there only a table filled with farmers, just like the last evening. "There's
something difficult with you both," K. said, and compared their faces as he had
often already done, "How should I distinguish you? You're different only in
name; completely identical otherwise" --- he stalled involuntarily here ---
"You're as similar as any two snakes." They laughed. "Others are well able to
tell us apart," they said in justification. "I believe you," K. said, "I was
witness to that myself, but I only see with my eyes, and I can't distinguish
you with those. So I'll treet you both like a single man and call you both
Artur. At least that's one of you. Maybe you?" asked K. to one of them. "No,"
that one said, "I'm Jeremias." --- "Well, it's the same either way," said K.,
"I'll call you both Artur. If I send Artur somewhere, you both go. If I give
Artur some work, you both do it. That's really got a big disadvantage for me: I
can't put you both to separate tasks. But there's an advantage: You're both
responsible for everything I ask of you. It's all the same to me how you divide
the work, just don't make excuses for each other, you're as one man to me."
They thought about this for a second and said, "That would be quite unpleasant
for us." --- "How wouldn't it be?" said K., "Of course it'll be unpleasant, but
that's how it'll be." Before any real time had passed, K. saw one of the
farmers sneaking around the table. He had finally made up his mind, going to
one of his helpers to whisper something to him. "Please," sadi K., hitting his
hand on the table and standing up. "These are my helpers, and we're having a
meeting. No one has the right to disturb us." --- "Oh, please, please," said
the farmer fearfully, going right back to his table. "You need to observe
this," said K., sitting agiain. "You must not speak to anyone without my
permission. I'm foreign here, and if you're my old assisstants, then you're
foreign, too. So we three foreigners need to stick together. Give me your
hands." They stretched their hands out to K. all too willingly. "Put your paws
away," he said, "But my command is still valid. I'm going to sleep now, and I
advise you to do the same. We missed a workday today, so we'll need to start
early tomorrow. You must provide a sled with which we can go to the castle. Be
ready at 7." --- "Good," said one of them. The other, driving in between, said,
"Good. And you know that's not possible." --- "Rest," said K., "You're
beginning to seem a little different." But then the first said, "He's right
that that's impossible; no foreigner goes to the castle without permission."
--- "Where do you get that permission?" --- "I don't know, but maybe from the
castellan." --- "Then we'll call the castellan. Call the castellan as soon as
possible!" They ran to the equipment and made the connection --- how crowdeed
there they both were! Outwardly they were comically obedient, asking quickly
whether K. was allowed to come to the castle in tomorrow. K. heard a "No!" on
the other end of the line from his place at the table. The rest of the answer
had no more detail: "Not tomorrow; not any other time." --- "I'll call myself,"
said K., standing up. During him and his assistant's time here, apart from the
one incident with the farmer, they'd received little notice, but this last
remark excited a general attention. Everyone rose with K., and although they
looked to the host pushing them back, they grouped together by the equipment in
a tight semicircle around him. They seemed of the opinion that K. would get no
answer. K. had to ask them to be quiet, demanding not to hear their opinions.

A humming came out of the eaprice; one such that K. had never heard from a
telephone. It was as though the humming was composed of numerous childish
voices --- but this humming wasn't that; it was faraway singing, many far-away
voices --- as if this humming was forming a single high, strong voice, hitting
the ear as if that voice were a demand, intruding deeper than just the sense of
hearing. K. listened without speaking, his left arm having supported the
telephone just to listen.

He didn't know how long this lasted: so long, at least, until the host tugged
on his coat, a messenger having come for him. "Go away!" cried K.,
unrestrained, maybe into the telephone, someone having now appeared. It turned
into this conversation: "This is Oswald, who's there?" he cried, a strict,
arrogant voice, with a small speech impediment, which, it seemed to K., he
tried to compensate for by tightening his voice yet further. K. hesitated to
give his name, defenseless as he was from the telephone, the other able to
thunder down it so well; he put away the mouthpiece, having blocked a perhaps
not unimportant path. K.'s hesitation made the man impatient. "Who's there?" he
repeated and added onwards: "I would be very pleased if you wouldn't call so
much from over there, you know a call was just made a moment ago." K. didn't
engage this observation and reported with a sudden decisiveness: "THese are the
assistants of the surveyor." --- "What assistants? What surveyor?" --- K.
recalled yesterday's conversation. "Ask Fritz," he said quickly. It helped, to
his astonishment. But even more than that, that it helped, he was amazed at the
consistency of the village. The answer was: "I know. The perpetual surveyor.
Yes, yes. What else? What assistant?" "Josef," said K. He was somewhat
disturbed by the murmurs of the farmers behind his back; obviously they were
not in agreement with what he had said. K., however, had no time to deal with
them since the conversation had such a claim on his attention. "Josef?" was
asked back to him. "The asisstants are named" --- a small pause, obviously
exacting the names from someone else --- "Artur and Jeremias." "Those are
the new assistants," said K. "No, those are the old." --- "They're the new, but
I'm the old, the one that the surveyor had come today." --- "No!" he cried now.
"Then who am I?" asked K., quiet up to now. And after a pause the same voice
with the same speech impediment, but mimicking the deeper, more respected voice
of another: "You're the old help."

K., listening to the sound of the voice, almost missed the question: "What do
you want?" He'd have preferred to have already put the receiever down. He
expected nothing more from this conversation. But he nevertheless asked the
forced question: "When will the surveyor be allowed to come to the castle?" ---
"Never," was the answer. "Good," said K., and he put the phone down.

The farmers behind him moved much closer to him. The assistants had, with many
sideways glances towards him, taken up keeping the farmers away. It seemed to
be nothing more than a joke, and even the farmers, satisfied with the results
of the conversation, slowly gave in. The group was then divided with the quick
steps of a man coming from behind them. He bowed in front of K. and handed a
letter over to him.

K. held the letter in his hand and looked at the man, him seeming more
important in the moment. There was a big similarity betwen him and the
assistants; him being as thin as them, still hardly as clothed as them (?!), as
flexible and nible as them, but still quite different.

How K. would have preferred to have him as an assistant! He reminded him
somewhat of the woman with the infant who he had seen with the master tanner.
He was almost all dressed in white with a coat probably made of silk; a
wintercoat like all others, but it had yet the delicacy and ceremony of a silk
coat. His face was light and open with oversized eyes. His smile was immensely
encouraging; he ran his hand over his face as though he had scared away his
smile, but evidently he hadn't succeeded. "Who are you?" K asked. "My name is
Barnabas," he said. "I am a messenger." Despite his masculinity, he softly
opened and closed his lips as he talked. "Do you like it here?" asked K. and
pointed to the farmers, who had not yet quite lost all interest in
him, watching with their literally tortured faces --- Their skulls looked as
though it had been beaten flat, and their facial features as though they had
been formed in that pain of being so beaten --- their thick lips opened their
mouths to look and simultaneously not to look; sometimes their gazes strayed
and stayed, before they returned, clinging to whichever indifferent object. And
then K. indicated his assistants holding each other, cheek to cheek and
smiling, though one couldn't know whether they were humble or mocking. He
indicated this all as if he were introducing via some special circumstance his
forced entourage and as though he were expecting --- here was the
confidence that mattered to K. --- that Barnabas would constantly distinguish
him and them. But Barnabas, of course and evidently in all his innocence,
didn't take that question up at all, letting it go past him like a
well-tempered servant would treat something said by the served meant only,
seemingly, for himself. He responded to the question by looking around himself,
waving hellos to acquaintances among the farmers and exchanging some words with
the assistants; everything freely and individually, but never mixing too
closely with them. K. returned , but never mixing too closely with them. K.
returned, rejected but not shamed, to the letter in his hand, opening it up.
The text read: "You are, as you know, in the taken in the Count's service. Your
supervisor is the mayor of the village, who will inform you of everything
about and related to your work here, and whom you will be accountable to.
Nevertheless, I too will never let you out of my sight. Barnabas, the messenger
of this letter, will ask after you from time to time to learn of your wishes and
to communicate them with me. You will always find me, as much as possible, to
be pleasant. I care about having satisfied workers." The signature was not
legible, but it was printed with: Office X. Chairman. "Wait!" said K., to the
bowing Barnabas, then calling the host so that he show him a room, wanting to
be alone with the letter for a little while. With that he remembered that
Barnabas, despite all K.'s affection, was only a messenger, and ordered him a
beer. He paid attention to how he would react to this: He obviously enjoyed it,
drinking it immediately. Then K. was with the host. Nothing more could be
provided to K. than a small attic room, and even that had its own difficulties
since there were two maids that had been sleeping there up until now, and they
would have to be accomodated elsewhere. Nothing had actually been done but to
move the maids out of the room, which was otherwise hardly changed; no linens
on the only bed, only a few pillows and a horse blanket, just as it was the
last night. On the wall there were a few paintings of saints and pictures of
soldiers. Not once had it been ventilated; it was obviously hoped that new
guests wouldn't stay too long, doing, as they were, nothing to keep them. But
K. was okay with it all, wrapped himself in the blanket, sat by the table, and
began by candlelight to read the letter.

It wasn't uniform; there were places where he were spoken to as though he were
free and his own will acknowledged. This is how the headline was, this was how
the places where his wishes were recognized were. Then again, there were places
where he was openly or from hiding handled as a small, common laborer. The
chairman had to make an effort "not to let him out of his sight," while his
superior was only the mayor, to whom he was accountable. His only co-workers
were maybe the village's police. Those were undoubtedly contradictions, they
were so obvious that they must have been meant to be observed. K. hardly
entertained the insane thought that such an authority let any indecision into
the letter. Therein he saw a much more open, presented choice: It was up to him
what he would like to make of the chaotic letter; whether he wanted to be a
common village worker with, anyway, a large but only seeming connection to the
castle or a only seem to be a village worker with, in fact, conditions of work
determined entirely by what Barnabas had said. K. didn't hesitate in choosing,
and he wouldn't have done so even without his previous experiences. If he were
only a village worker, so far as possible removed from the castle as he was
able, these people in the village who were so distrustful of him would begin to
speak to him, not necessarily as though he were a friend, but as a fellow
citizen, indistinguishable from Gerstäcker or Lasemann --- and how quickly it
needed to happen, how everything depended on it! --- all paths would suddenly
open to him, paths that would be not just closed but invisible if decided by
the men above. Of course a danger existed, emphasized enough in the letter,
presented with a certain joy, as though it were inescapable. It was that being
of a worker. Service, his supervisor, work, wage regulations, accountability,
employees --- the letter was teeming with them, even if something more personal
was said, it was expressed from every viewpoint. If K. would be a worker, it
could be that but in all fearful seriousness without any look elsewhere. K.
knew he wasn't threatened with any real obligation, he didn't fear that at
least, but the violence of the discouraging environment, the habituation of
disappointments, the violence of imperceptible influence at every moment, this
he feared nonetheless, but it was with this danger that he must venture the
struggle.

The letter made no effort to hide that K., if it should come to fighting, would
have the audacity to start it; it was said subtly and only an untroubled
conscience --- untroubled, but not bad --- could notice it in the three words
"how you know" regarding his entry into service. K. had applied and, now he
knew, was accepted into service.

K. took a picture of the wall and hanged the letter on the nail; the letter
should be in this room where he resided.

Then he climbed down to the inn. Barnabas sat with the assistants at a small
table. "Oh, there you are," said K., without reason, only because he was happy
to see Barnabas. He jumped right up. Hardly had K. entered the room before the
farmers risen, too, to get closer to him, it already becoming a habit of theirs
to follow him. "WHat do you all want from me!" cried K. They didn't take it
poorly, turning slowly back to their places. Leaving, one explained, lightly,
with an indicipherable smile, noticed by some others: "You always hear
something new," and he licked his lips as though he could eat that something
new. K. said nothing concilliatory, it was good if they developed some respect
for him, but hardly had he sat with Barnabas than he sensed the breath of a
farmer on his neck,; he came, as he said, to get the salt shaker, but K.
stamped his feet in anger, and so the farmer ran away without any salt. It was
really very simple to deal with K. One only needed to, for example, set the
farmers on him. Their persistent interest seemed more evil to K. than the
seclusion of the others, and even aside from that it was seclusion that had K.
sit at the table; they certainly wouldn't have stayed there otherwise. Only
Barnabas's presence deterred then from making noise. But he turned himself
still around threateningly as they turned to him. How he saw them sit there,
everyone in their place, without talking to each other, without visible
connections between them, only tied together by staring at him; it seemed that
there might be nothing too wrong in letting them follow him. Maybe they really
wanted something from him and couldn't say it, and if that weren't true, then
maybe it was only something childish that seemed at home her. Wasn't the host
also a bit childish, him with his glass of beer that he should be bringing to a
guest, holding it in both hands, silently, looking at K. and ignoring his
wife's shout from the kitchen's small window?

K. turned more quietly to Barnabas, having preferred the assistants gone, but
finding no pretext to make it happen. Regardless, they were looking silently at
their beer. "The letter," began K., "I've read it. Do you know the content?"
--- "No," said Barnabas, his gaze seeming to say more than his words. Maybe K.
was mistaken in seeing goodness in Barnabas like he saw malice in the farmers,
soothing as he found his presence. "It's also that the letter talks of you,
that you should communicate between me and the leadership, and so I thought
that you knew what it said." --- "I only got," said Barnabas, "the assignment
to give you that letter, to wait until it was read, and then, if it seemed
necessary to you, to bring back an answer in speech or writing." --- "Okay,"
said K., "It doesn't require anything written. Send my thanks to --- what's his
name, then? I can't read the signature." --- "Klamm," said Barnabas. "Send my
thanks to Klamm for the record and especially for his friendliness, that I,
having not proven myself at all, appreicate well. I will be entirely as his
intentions dictate. I have no special wishes." Barnabas, paying special
attention to this, asked to repeat the order to K. K. allowed it, and Barnabas
repeated it word for word. Then he stood up so that he could say goodbye.

Over this whole time, K. was examining his face, and now he did so for a last
time. Barnabas was as large as K., but despite this he seemed to look down from
above, but almost in a way that seemed humble. It was impossible for this man
to cause shame to anyone. Of course, he was only a messenger, he didn't know
the contents of the letter that he carried, buut even so his gaze, simle, and
gait, seemed to be a message in itself, though it wasn't one he knew. And K.
gave him his hand, which obviously surprised him, going as he had to bow.

Simultaneously, when he had left --- he opened the dor just a little with this
shoulder and with a look no more for any single person in the roo --- K. said
to his assistatns: "I'm going to get my notes out of my room, and then we'll
discuss the next assignment." They wanted to come with. "Stay!" said K. They
still wanted to go with. K. had to repeat the order yet more strictly. Barnabas
was no longer in the corridor. But he had still just left. Just in front of the
house --- new snow falling --- K. didn't see him. He cried: "Barnabas!" to now
answer. Should he go back to the house? It seemed that no other possibilities
remained. But K. still screamed the name with all his might. The name thundered
through the night. And from a distance came a weak answer; Barnabas was so far
already. K. called him back and went to meet him at the same time; they
couldn't see the inn from where they met each other.

"Barnabas," said K., and he couldn't overcome a tremor in his voice, "I wanted
to say somethingi more to you. I noticed that it's a poor arrangement to rely
on you coming by chance when I need something from the castle. If I can't reach
you --- And how fast you are! I thought you were still in the house, --- who
knows how long I will need to wait for your next appearance?" --- "You can of
course ask the executives that I come to you at any specific times." --- "Even
that wouldn't be enough," K. said, "maybe I want to let nothing be said for a
year, but just fifteen minutes after you go, there'd be something urgent." ---
"So should I," asked Barnabas, "notify the executives that there should be
another connection between them via myself?" --- "No, no," said K., "certainly
and totally not, I'm mentioning this only in passing. I was fortunately able to
reach you this time." --- "Do you want us," said Barnabas, "to go back to the
inn, where you can give me your next statement?" He was already taking a step
out towards the inn. "Barnabas," said K., "that's not necessary, I'll go little
while with you." --- "Why don't you want to go the inn?" asked Barnabas. "The
people there disturb me," said K., "You yourself saw the intrusiveness of the
host." --- "We can go to your room," said Barnabas. "It's a maid's room," said
K., "dirty and dull; not somewhere you ought to stay. I'd like to go a little
with you; you need only," continued K., in order to finally get over his
hesitation, "just let us link arms, so that you'll be safer." And K. put his
arm in Barnabas's. It was entirely dark, so K. didn't see his face; even his
from was unclear: K. had tried to find his arm a little while ago.

K. gave in and left from the inn. Of course, K. felt that he wasn't capable of
keeping up, that he was hindering Barnabas's free movement, and that under
differing circumstances this detail must lead to failure, especially in these
small alleys that K. had sunk into just last afternoon, only able to be dragged
out by Barnabas. But he kept these concerns to himself, and even Barnabas was
comfortably silent. If they were going in silence, then maybe the point of the
meeting, even for Barnabas, might just be to walk. The walked, but K. didn't
know where; he couldn't recognize anything. He couldn't once say whether they
had already passed the church. Through the mere act of walking's struggle, it
happened that he couldn't control his thougts. Instead of adjusting to stay
with his goal, they were confused. His home came to mind again and again, and
memories of it pervaded his thoughts. There too there was a church on the main
square, being in part an old cemetery surrounded by a tall wall. Of course,
very few children had successfuly climbed this wall, and, as of yet, K. wasn't
one of them. It wasn't curiosity that drove him to do it: The cemetery had no
mysteries left for him. He often went through the small grated door; he
wanted only to conquer the smooth, high wall. One morning, the quiet, empty
place was flooded with light --- when did K. see that, ever earlier or after?
--- and he succeeded surprisingly simply; on one place where he had already
frequently failed, he climbed up in his first attempt, a small flag between his
teeth. Gravel was trickling down below him, and he was soon on top of the wall.
He battered the flag in, the wind stretching the cloth as he looked below and
around, even back over his shoulder at the earth with the crosses sunk in;
right now, no one was bigger than him. By chance, the teacher came by, driving
K. down with an annoyed look. In the jump down, K. injured his knee, and came
home with effort, but yet he had been on that wall. The feeling of the victory
seemed to him to be a fixed point for all his life; something not entirely
foolish; now, after so many years, in the night's snow, holding on to
Barnabas's arm, it came to help him.

He hung solidly on, Barnabas almost pulling him; the silence undisturbed. K.
only knew of the path that they, judging by the state of the road, they hadn't
yet turned out of a side alley. He vowed, not through the difficulties of the
path or by the worries of the return trip, to go onwards. After he would
finally be able to continue sleeping, his strength would wake with him. And
could the path be unending? By day the castle was an easy goal for him to
approach, and the messenger surely knew the quickest path.

There, Barnabas stayed standing. Where were they? Did the road go no further?
Would Barnabas tell K. goodbye? It wouldn't work. K. held Barnabas's arm close,
almost injuring himself. Or should the unbelievable be true, and they were
already in the castle or at the door? But they absolutely hadn't, so far as K.
could tell, ascended. Or had Barnabas lead him up an unnoticeably rising road?
"Where are we?" asked K. lightly, more to himself than to him Barnabas. "Home,"
said Barnabas evenly. "Home?" --- "Now pay attention, Sir, so that you don't
slip. The path goes downwards." --- "Downwards?" --- "It's only a few steps."
He lead them onward, and soon he knocked on a door.

A small girl opened it; she stood on the threshold of a large room almost in
darkness; only over a door to the left in the background was there a small oil
lamp hanging. "Who's here with you, Barnabas?" asked the little girl. "The
surveyor," he said. "The surveyfor," repeated the little girl louder, towards
t There there were two old people, a man and a woman, and another small girl.
K. was greeted. Barnabas introduced him to all of them, it was his parents and
his sisters Olga and Amalia. K. hardly saw them; his coat was taken to be dried
by the oven. K. let it happen.

They weren't home; only Barnabas was home. But why were they here? K. took
Barnabas off to the side and asked: "Why did you go home? Or do you all live in
the field of the castle?" --- "In the field of the castle?" repeated Barnabas,
as though he didn't understand K. "Barnabas," said K., "you wanted, in the inn,
to go to the castle." --- "No, Sir," said Barnabas. "I wanted to go home; I'll
go to the castle early in the morning. I would never sleep there." --- "So,"
said K., "You didn't want to go to the castle, only out here." His smile felt
to him weaker; becoming invisible to himself. --- "Why didn't you tell me?" ---
"You didn't ask, Sir," said Barnabas, "You just wanted to give me an assignment,
but neither in the inn nor in your room, so I thought that you could give me the
assignment undisturbed, here with my parents. They will, all the same, remove
themselves, if you command it. You could even, if it feels better for you,
spend the night here with us. Have I done something wrong?" K. couldn't answer.
So it had been a misunderstanding; a common, unimportant misunderstanding, and
K. had went as far as it would go. He had been enchanted by Barnabas'
close-fitting, satin jacket, which he now unbuttoned, and under it there was a
large, much-mended shirt over the powerful, square chest of a farmworker. And
everything corresponded not only with this, but further; the old, gouty father,
who came forward more with the help of his fumbling hands than his slowly
closing, stiff legs; the mother with her hands folded on her chest, only able
to take so few steps. Both the mother and father, after K. entered, went out of
their corner, soon reaching him. The sisters, each blonde, similar both to each
other and to Barnabas, though harsher than Barnabas, tall, strong girls, stood
for their arrivals, expecting greetings from K. But he could say nothing; he
had believed that here in the village everyone mattered to him, and it was
probably even true, but, seemingly, perhaps not these people. If he were able
to take the path back to the inn on his own, he would have gone right away. The
possibility of going to the castle with Barnabas the next morning didn't even
entice him. Now he wanted to get into the castle at night, unnoticed, lead by
Barnabas, but by a Barnabas who was as he seemed to K. up to now; a man who was
closer to him than everyone else, the one he had seen in Barnabas until here,
and who, again as previously thought, had a degree of connection to the castle
far above the others. But with the son of this family, sitting at the table and
belonging there, who had never been allowed to sleep one night in the castle,
resting his arms to go to the castle on a bright day, was impossible, a
laughable, hopeless thing to attempt.
