BEFORE THE LAW

Before the law, there is a doorkeeper. A man from far away comes to this
doorkeeper and asks for entry into the law. But the doorkeeper says that he
can't yet grant this man entry. The man thinks this over and then asks whether
he'd be allowed to enter at a later time.

"It's possible," says the doorkeeper, "but now now."

The door to the law is there, open as it always is, when the doorkeeper steps
aside. The man bends down in order to see through the door. When the doorkeeper
notices this, he laughs and says:

"If it's that appealing to you, go and try it. Try to go in against the rules.
But know: I'm powerful. And I am only the lowest doorkeeper. From hall to hall,
there are only doorkeepers more powerful than the last. I can't bear to look at
even just the third."

The man hadn't expected such difficulties; the law is meant to be open to
everyone, he thinks, but when he sees the doorkeeper in his fur coat and his
long, thin, dark, beard, he decides that he'd rather wait until he gets the
doorkeeper's permission. The doorkeeper gives him a stool and lets him sit off
to the side at the front of the door.

He sits there for days and for years. He tries often to be admitted, tiring the
doorkeeper with his requests. The doorkeeper often puts him through brief
interrogations, asking him about his home and much else, but these are
the kinds of pointless questions asked by an adult to a child, and ultimately
the doorkeeper just reiterates that he can't yet let him in. The man,
well-equipped for his journey, offered everything he had of value to bribe the
doorkeeper. He takes it all, but says:

"I'm only taking your bribes so that you don't believe you've missed anything."

During the many years, the man thinks about the doorkeeper almost without
break. He forgets about the other doorkeepers, thinking that this first is his
largest obstacle to the law. He curses his luckless accident --- in the first
year, loudly and recklessly, but later, as he gets older, he hums the curses
just for himself. He becomes childish, and, in his years-long study of the
doorkeeper, came to recognize even the fleas in the doorkeeper's coat, asking
these flies to help and to change the doorkeeper's mind. Finally, his eyes
became weak, and he didn't know if everything was really getting darker, or if
it was just his eyes deceiving him. But he probably recognized a shine that
broke through the door to the law. Now, however, he wouldn't live much longer.

Before his death, all his experiences heretofore come together from his head
into a question that he'd not yet posed to the doorkeeper. He beckons him over,
and his decaying body can no longer stay upright. The doorkeeper needs to bend
down deep, the man's height difference newly disadvantaging him.

"What would you like to know now?" asks the doorkeeper, "You are insatiable."

"So everyone strives to the law," says the man, "How come nobody but me, in all
these years, has come to demand entry?"

The doorkeeper recognizes that the man is almost at his end, and, for the
benefit of the man's fading hearing, he roars:

"Nobody else can enter here; this entrance was just for you. I'm going now and
I'm closing it."
